docs/services/adservice.md, before:

# Ad Service

This service determines appropriate ads to serve to users based on context
keys. The ads will be for products available in the store.

[Ad service source](../../src/adservice/)

## Auto-instrumentation

This Java based service, makes use of the OpenTelemetry Java agent to accomplish
auto-instrumention, by leveraging the `-javaagent` command line argument when
starting the service. This service adds the command line option as part of the
`JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS` environment variable definition in the service's
`Dockerfile`. This environment variable is leveraged as part of the service's
gradle generated startup script.

```dockerfile
ENV JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS=-javaagent:/app/opentelemetry-javaagent.jar
```

## Traces

### Add attributes to auto-instrumented spans

Within the execution of auto-instrumented code you can get current span from
context.

```java
    Span span = Span.current();
```

Adding attributes to a span is accomplished using `setAttribute` on the span
object. In the `getAds` function multiples attribute are added to the span.

```java
    span.setAttribute("app.ads.contextKeys", req.getContextKeysList().toString());
    span.setAttribute("app.ads.contextKeys.count", req.getContextKeysCount());
```

### Add span events

Adding an event to a span is accomplished using `addEvent` on the span object.
In the `getAds` function an event with an attribute is added when an exception
is caught.

```java
    span.addEvent("Error", Attributes.of(AttributeKey.stringKey("exception.message"), e.getMessage()));
```

### Setting span status

If the result of the operation is an error, the span status is should be set
accordingly using `setStatus` on the span object. In the `getAds` function the
span status is set when an exception is caught.

```java
    span.setStatus(StatusCode.ERROR);
```

### Create new spans

New spans can be created and started using
`Tracer.spanBuilder("spanName").startSpan()`. Newly created spans should be set
into context using `Span.makeCurrent()`. The `getRandomAds` function will
create a new span, set it into context, perform an operation, and finally end
the span.

```java
    // create and start a new span manually
    Tracer tracer = GlobalOpenTelemetry.getTracer("adservice");
    Span span = tracer.spanBuilder("getRandomAds").startSpan();

    // put the span into context, so if any child span is started the parent will be set properly
    try (Scope ignored = span.makeCurrent()) {

      Collection<Ad> allAds = adsMap.values();
      for (int i = 0; i < MAX_ADS_TO_SERVE; i++) {
        ads.add(Iterables.get(allAds, random.nextInt(allAds.size())));
      }
      span.setAttribute("app.ads.count", ads.size());

    } finally {
      span.end();
    }
```

## Metrics

TBD

## Logs

TBD

Commit message:

Final Docs Review (#515)
* add scenario dashboard

* docs pass

* add scenario

* automatically create dashboards

* tweak readme intro and update fork info

* update header for cartservice

* add note on forks

* copilot!

* document currency service

Co-authored-by: Pierre Tessier <pierre@pierretessier.com>

docs/services/adservice.md, after:

# Ad Service

This service determines appropriate ads to serve to users based on context
keys. The ads will be for products available in the store.

[Ad service source](../../src/adservice/)

## Auto-instrumentation

This service relies on the OpenTelemetry Java Agent to automatically instrument
libraries such as gRPC, and to configure the OpenTelemetry SDK. The agent is
passed into the process using the `-javaagent` command line argument. Command
line arguments are added through the `JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS` in the `Dockerfile`,
and leveraged during the automatically generated Gradle startup script.

```dockerfile
ENV JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS=-javaagent:/app/opentelemetry-javaagent.jar
```

## Traces

### Add attributes to auto-instrumented spans

Within the execution of auto-instrumented code you can get current span from
context.

```java
    Span span = Span.current();
```

Adding attributes to a span is accomplished using `setAttribute` on the span
object. In the `getAds` function multiples attribute are added to the span.

```java
    span.setAttribute("app.ads.contextKeys", req.getContextKeysList().toString());
    span.setAttribute("app.ads.contextKeys.count", req.getContextKeysCount());
```

### Add span events

Adding an event to a span is accomplished using `addEvent` on the span object.
In the `getAds` function an event with an attribute is added when an exception
is caught.

```java
    span.addEvent("Error", Attributes.of(AttributeKey.stringKey("exception.message"), e.getMessage()));
```

### Setting span status

If the result of the operation is an error, the span status is should be set
accordingly using `setStatus` on the span object. In the `getAds` function the
span status is set when an exception is caught.

```java
    span.setStatus(StatusCode.ERROR);
```

### Create new spans

New spans can be created and started using
`Tracer.spanBuilder("spanName").startSpan()`. Newly created spans should be set
into context using `Span.makeCurrent()`. The `getRandomAds` function will
create a new span, set it into context, perform an operation, and finally end
the span.

```java
    // create and start a new span manually
    Tracer tracer = GlobalOpenTelemetry.getTracer("adservice");
    Span span = tracer.spanBuilder("getRandomAds").startSpan();

    // put the span into context, so if any child span is started the parent will be set properly
    try (Scope ignored = span.makeCurrent()) {

      Collection<Ad> allAds = adsMap.values();
      for (int i = 0; i < MAX_ADS_TO_SERVE; i++) {
        ads.add(Iterables.get(allAds, random.nextInt(allAds.size())));
      }
      span.setAttribute("app.ads.count", ads.size());

    } finally {
      span.end();
    }
```

## Metrics

TBD

## Logs

TBD
